update content on all versions (#325)
litmuschaos/litmus-docs: docs/chaostoolkit-k8-pod-delete.md

---
id: chaostoolkit-k8-pod-delete
title: ChaosToolKit Pod Delete Experiment Details
sidebar_label: ChaosToolKit Pod Delete
---
------

## Experiment Metadata

<table>
  <tr>
    <th> Type </th>
    <th> Description </th>
    <th> Tested K8s Platform </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> ChaosToolKit </td>
    <td> ChaosToolKit pod delete experiment </td>
    <td> Kubeadm, Minikube </td>
  </tr>
</table>

## Prerequisites
- Ensure that the Litmus Chaos Operator is running by executing `kubectl get pods` in operator namespace (typically, `litmus`). If not, install from [here](https://docs.litmuschaos.io/docs/getstarted/#install-litmus)
- Ensure that the `k8-pod-delete` experiment resource is available in the cluster by executing `kubectl get chaosexperiments` in the desired namespace. If not, install from [here](kubectl apply -f https://hub.litmuschaos.io/api/chaos/1.6.1?file=charts/chaostoolkit/k8-pod-delete/experiment.yaml)

> - Ensure you have nginx default application setup on default namespac ( if you are using specific namespace please execute beloe on that namespace)

Reviewer: Does it have to be nginx only? I suppose it can be any that has a resolvable endpoint?

Reviewer 2: Yes, it could be any resolvable point. nginx is as reference only, as that is easyly available.

## Entry Criteria

- Application replicas are healthy before chaos injection
- Service resolution works successfully as determined by deploying a sample nginx application and a custom liveness app querying the nginx application health end point

## Exit Criteria

- Application replicas are healthy after chaos injection
- Service resolution works successfully as determined by deploying a sample nginx application and a custom liveness app querying the nginx application health end point

## Details

> - Causes graceful pod failure of an ChaosToolKit replicas bases on provided namespace and Label with endpoint

Reviewer: Do you mean: 

```suggestion
- Causes graceful pod failure of application replicas using chaostoolkit based on provided namespace and Label while doing health checks against the endpoint
```
>

> - Tests deployment sanity check with Steady state hypothesis pre and post pod failures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Tests deployment sanity with steady state hypothesis executed pre and post pod failures
```

> - Service resolution will failed if Application replicas are not present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Service resolution will fail if application replicas are not present.
```

## Integrations

> - Pod failures can be effected using one of these chaos libraries: `litmus`

Reviewer: The ChaosExperiment CR [here](https://github.com/litmuschaos/chaos-charts/blob/master/charts/chaostoolkit/k8-pod-delete/experiment.yaml) for chaostoolkit based k8-pod-delete doesn't make use of the LIB env variable, unlike other experiments.

Reviewer 2: Added new use case table

## Steps to Execute the Chaos Experiment

- This Chaos Experiment can be triggered by creating a ChaosEngine resource on the cluster. To understand the values to provide in a ChaosEngine specification, refer [Getting Started](getstarted.md/#prepare-chaosengine)

- Follow the steps in the sections below to create the chaosServiceAccount, prepare the ChaosEngine & execute the experiment.

## Prepare chaosServiceAccount

> - Based on your use case pick one of the choice from here `https://github.com/sumitnagal/chaos-charts/tree/testing/charts/chaostoolkit/k8-pod-delete`

Reviewer: Now the PR for merging service/cluster usecases (chaosengines) is [merged](https://github.com/litmuschaos/chaos-charts/pull/278).

We can reference this link instead of the fork.

Reviewer 2: Added Service as well as Cluster folder

- apiGroups: [""]
  resources: ["nodes"]
  verbs : ["get","list"]
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: k8-pod-delete-sa
  namespace: default
  labels:
    name: k8-pod-delete-sa
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: Role
  name: k8-pod-delete-sa
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: k8-pod-delete-sa
  namespace: default
```

### Prepare ChaosEngine

- Provide the application info in `spec.appinfo`
  - It will be default as
    ```
      appinfo:
        appns: default
        applabel: 'app=nginx'
        appkind: deployment
    ```

- Override the experiment tunables if desired in `experiments.spec.components.env`
- To understand the values to provided in a ChaosEngine specification, refer [ChaosEngine Concepts](chaosengine-concepts.md)

#### Supported Experiment Tunables

<table>
  <tr>
    <th> Variables </th>
    <th> Description  </th>
    <th> Specify In ChaosEngine </th>
    <th> Notes </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> NAME_SPACE </td>
    <td> This is chaos namespace which will create all infra chaos resources in that namespace </td>
    <td> Mandatory </td>
    <td> Default to default </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td> LABEL_NAME </td>

Reviewer: Let's also specify that the label key always refers to "app" & this ENV specifies the label value alone. Ref: https://github.com/litmuschaos/litmus-python/blob/fea74e3881886f02ed762a59d110433cd7c56281/chaos-test/chaostest/chaostest/json/pod-app-kill-count.json#L32

(seems to be the case with other predefined json templates/chaos definitions)

Reviewer 2: I keep it generic as we have 3 implementation, "app=<>" "<>=<>"

Reviewer 2: Added use cases in tabluar format

    <td> The default name of the label </td>
    <td> Mandatory </td>
    <td> Defaults to nginx </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> APP_ENDPOINT </td>

>     <td> Endpoint where chaostoolkit will make a call and ensure the application endpoint is healthy </td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td> Endpoint where chaostoolkit will make a call and ensure the application is healthy </td>
```

    <td> Mandatory </td>
    <td> Defaults to localhost </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> FILE </td>

>     <td> Type of chaos experiments we want to execute </td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td> Type of pod-delete chaos (in terms of steady state checks performed) we want to execute, represented by the chaostoolkit json file</td>
```

```yaml
apiVersion: litmuschaos.io/v1alpha1
kind: ChaosEngine
metadata:
  name: nginx-chaos-app-health
  namespace: default
spec:
  appinfo:
    appns: 'default'
    applabel: 'app=nginx'
    appkind: 'deployment'
  annotationCheck: 'true'
  engineState: 'active'
  chaosServiceAccount: k8-pod-delete-sa
  monitoring: false
  jobCleanUpPolicy: 'retain'
  experiments:
    - name: k8-pod-delete
      spec:
        components:
          env:
            # set chaos namespace
            - name: NAME_SPACE
              value: 'default'
            # set chaos label name
            - name: LABEL_NAME
              value: 'nginx'
            # pod endpoint
            - name: APP_ENDPOINT
              value: 'localhost'
            - name: FILE
              value: 'pod-app-kill-health.json'
            - name: REPORT
              value: 'true'
            - name: REPORT_ENDPOINT
              value: 'none'
```

### Create the ChaosEngine Resource

- Create the ChaosEngine manifest prepared in the previous step to trigger the Chaos.

  `kubectl apply -f chaosengine.yml`

### Watch Chaos progress

> - View chaostoolkit pod terminations & recovery by setting up a watch on the chaostoolkit pods in the application namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- View application pod termination & recovery by setting up a watch on the pods in the application namespace
```
